[SYCL] Add libsycl, a SYCL RT library implementation project (#1)
sergey-semenov/llvm-project: libsycl/docs/index.rst

.. _index:

==============================
"libsycl" SYCL runtime library
==============================

Overview
========

libsycl is an implementation of the SYCL runtime library as defined by the
`SYCL 2020 specification <https://registry.khronos.org/SYCL/specs/sycl-2020/html/sycl-2020.html>`_.

libsycl runtime library and headers require C++17 support or higher.

Current Status
==============

The implementation is in the very early stages of upstreaming. The first milestone is to get
support for a simple SYCL application with device code using Unified Shared Memory:

.. code-block:: c++

   #include <sycl/sycl.hpp>
   
   class TestKernel;
   
   int main() {
     sycl::queue q;
   
     const size_t dataSize = 32;
     int *dataPtr = sycl::malloc_shared<int>(32, q);
     for (int i = 0; i < dataSize; ++i)
       dataPtr[i] = 0;
   
     q.submit([&](sycl::handler &cgh) {
       cgh.parallel_for<TestKernel>(
           sycl::range<1>(dataSize),
           [=](sycl::id<1> idx) { dataPtr[idx] = idx[0]; });
     });
     q.wait();
   
     for (int i = 0; i < dataSize; ++i)

>        if (dataPtr[i] != i) return 1;

Reviewer: `dataPtr` leaks here, we don't want to have that in our first example :)

   
     free(dataPtr, q);
   
     return 0;
   }

This requires at least partial support of the following functionality on the libsycl side:
  * sycl::platform class
  * sycl::device class
  * sycl::context class
  * sycl::queue class
  * sycl::handler class
  * sycl::id and sycl::range classes
  * Unified shared memory allocation/deallocation

>   * Program manager, an internal component for retrieving and using device images from the fat binary

Reviewer 2: Can we avoid use of the term "fat binary" and say "multi-architecture binary" instead? The term, "fat", can have negative connotations.
```suggestion
  * Program manager, an internal component for retrieving and using device images from multi-architectural binaries
```

Reviewer 3: > Can we avoid use of the term "fat binary" and say "multi-architecture binary" instead? The term, "fat", can have negative connotations.

+1
I think this is a change that might need to occur 'everywhere'. 

Thanks

libsycl runtime library and headers require C++17 support or higher.

Current Status
==============

The implementation is in the very early stages of upstreaming. The first milestone is to get
support for a simple SYCL application with device code using Unified Shared Memory:

.. code-block:: c++

   #include <sycl/sycl.hpp>
   
   class TestKernel;
   
   int main() {
     sycl::queue q;
   
     const size_t dataSize = 32;
     int *dataPtr = sycl::malloc_shared<int>(32, q);
     for (int i = 0; i < dataSize; ++i)
       dataPtr[i] = 0;
   
     q.submit([&](sycl::handler &cgh) {
       cgh.parallel_for<TestKernel>(
           sycl::range<1>(dataSize),
           [=](sycl::id<1> idx) { dataPtr[idx] = idx[0]; });
     });
     q.wait();
   
     bool error = false;
     for (int i = 0; i < dataSize; ++i)
       if (dataPtr[i] != i) error = true;
   
     free(dataPtr, q);
   
     return error;
   }

This requires at least partial support of the following functionality on the libsycl side:
  * sycl::platform class
  * sycl::device class
  * sycl::context class
  * sycl::queue class
  * sycl::handler class

>   * sycl::id and sycl::range classes

Reviewer 4: For `sycl::platform` kind of rendering in RST:
```suggestion
  * ``sycl::platform`` class
  * ``sycl::device`` class
  * ``sycl::context`` class
  * ``sycl::queue`` class
  * ``sycl::handler`` class
  * ``sycl::id`` and ``sycl::range`` classes
```

Reviewer 5: done

     q.wait();
   
     bool error = false;
     for (int i = 0; i < dataSize; ++i)
       if (dataPtr[i] != i) error = true;
   
     free(dataPtr, q);
   
     return error;
   }

This requires at least partial support of the following functionality on the libsycl side:
  * ``sycl::platform`` class
  * ``sycl::device`` class
  * ``sycl::context`` class
  * ``sycl::queue`` class
  * ``sycl::handler`` class
  * ``sycl::id`` and ``sycl::range`` classes
  * Unified shared memory allocation/deallocation
  * Program manager, an internal component for retrieving and using device images from the multi-architectural binaries

To build LLVM with libsycl runtime enabled the following script can be used.

.. code-block:: console

  #!/bin/sh

  build_llvm=`pwd`/build-llvm
  installprefix=`pwd`/install
  llvm=`pwd`
  mkdir -p $build_llvm
  mkdir -p $installprefix

  cmake -G Ninja -S $llvm/llvm -B $build_llvm \
        -DLLVM_ENABLE_PROJECTS="clang;clang-tools-extra" \
        -DLLVM_INSTALL_UTILS=ON \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$installprefix \
        -DLLVM_ENABLE_RUNTIMES="libcxx;libcxxabi;libsycl;libunwind" \
        -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release

  ninja -C $build_llvm install

>   

Reviewer 2: Perhaps move this to the TBD section in `libsycl/README.md`.

Reviewer 5: all other comments are fixed in https://github.com/sergey-semenov/llvm-project/pull/1/commits/5157163407be9199c03437b345f38b1830110923

regarding this suggestion, llvm-project readme file itself doesn't have any instructions, only links to a proper docs. SYCL RT GetStartedGuide is not a part of this PR. So I decided to left TBD there to not trigger comments about addition of proper documentation and alignment with LLVM. Please let me know if you think that it is still better to add this to the main readme file.
https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project?tab=readme-ov-file#getting-the-source-code-and-building-llvm

Reviewer 2: Thanks, it was just a suggestion, so keeping this as-is is fine.
